---
title: "September 2020"
author: "Liam Hinzman"
date: "2020-09-31"
url: "2020-09"
...

September 2020 Newsletter
====================

## Personal
Moved to SF for my freshman year at Minerva.

[Made][214] a cooking page on my website.

## Links
### Complex Systems
### Art
[Art as a Cultural System (Geertz)][212]

<details>
<summary>
This paper argues that fully understanding a work of art requires knowledge of its cultural context
</summary>

_In the falling snow_\
_A laughing boy holds out his palms_\
_Until they are white_

If you only look at formal elements like imagery, you end up with a boring interpretation of this haiku. E.g. "The innocence of childhood blah blah".

But with cultural context, knowing that this poem was written by an African-American poet during the civil rights movement - the poem takes on a much deeper meaning.

Art is often part of a society-wide conversation, and without cultural context, it's like you're listening in on the middle of a conversation where you know none of the words.
</details>

[Into the Spider-Verse, Leap of Faith Scene][210]\
_The climactic scene of an amazing movie._

[The Sound of the Spider-Verse][211]

<details>
<summary>
A video essay on the soundtrack of "Into the Spider-Verse"
</summary>

This video focuses on how leitmotifs are used to underscore key moments of the film - stages in the hero's journey.

Highlight: In the "Leap of Faith" scene, there are 3 musical themes at play.
1. The use of hip-hop music is present whenever Miles (the main character) is comfortable and feeling like himself.
2. A slow octave jump up, followed by an octave jump down - which plays whenever Miles encounters something that changes his life. This leitmotif repeats several times in the scene.
3. The rhythm that plays at the very end of the scene plays whenever a "Spider hero" is on screen - its presence here signals that Miles has completed his transformation as a hero.
</details>


### Misc
[What I Wish I Knew In College][208]

<details>
<summary>
Actionable advice for people to make the most of their time in college
</summary>

Leverage Your Free Time
> Your college years are going to give you the most free schedule you are ever likely to have... [This] represents the most important factor to get right.
>
> Sit down right now and write out a list of everything you want to do... When you’re done, look at the list, and think about what’s required to get there... While you are in college, you have a unique opportunity to [accomplish] those things that require lots of time.

Socialize Deliberately
> Think about whatever field you’re interested in, and locate the other people [in the city] who have the same ambitions

> A critically undervalued resource is the fact that you have unprecedented access to a large number of highly intelligent people – your college professors... Always use a professor’s office hours, you’re likely the only person who will be there! Give them a reason to remember you, and eventually to help you out.
</details>

# <!-- September 2020 Links -->
[208]: http://becomingeden.com/what-i-wish-i-knew-in-college/
[210]: https://youtu.be/yoS74R-qKIY
[211]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ozbKHKntpCc
[212]: https://sci-hub.tw/10.2307/2907147
[214]: https://liamhinzman.com/cooking.html
